President Trump’s eldest son,
Donald Trump Jr., was promised damaging information about Hillary Clinton
before agreeing to meet with a Kremlin-connected Russian lawyer during the 2016 campaign,
according to three advisers to the White House briefed on the meeting and two others with knowledge of it.
The meeting was also attended by his campaign chairman at the time,
Paul J. Manafort, and his son-in-law, Jared Kushner. Mr. Manafort and Mr. Kushner recently disclosed the meeting,
though not its content, in confidential government documents described to The New York Times.
The Times reported the existence of the meeting on Saturday.
But in subsequent interviews, the advisers and others revealed the motivation behind it.
The meeting — at Trump Tower on June 9, 2016,
two weeks after Donald J. Trump clinched the Republican nomination — points to the central question
in federal investigations of the Kremlin’s meddling in the presidential election: whether the Trump campaign colluded with the Russians.
The accounts of the meeting represent the first public indication that at least some in the campaign were willing to accept Russian help.
Continue reading the main story
While President Trump has been dogged by revelations of undisclosed meetings between his associates and the Russians,
the episode at Trump Tower is the first such confirmed private meeting involving his inner circle during the campaign —
as well as the first one known to have included his eldest son. It came at an inflection point in the campaign, when Donald Trump Jr.,
who served as an adviser and a surrogate, was ascendant and Mr. Manafort was consolidating power.
It is unclear whether the Russian lawyer, Natalia Veselnitskaya, actually produced the promised compromising information about Mrs. Clinton.
But the people interviewed by The Times about the meeting said the expectation was that she would do so.
When he was first asked about the meeting on Saturday,
Donald Trump Jr. said that it was primarily about adoptions and mentioned nothing about Mrs. Clinton.